Title:   Hipster in Japan #2: Adapting to Life
License: CC BY-SA 3.0
Tags:    Japan

With my suitcases mostly unpacked and my workstation setup on a tiny table that
barely fits my laptop and a wireless mouse, I am finally ready to tackle the
Japanese life style. From the very beginning I knew what my two biggest enemies
would be: Isolation and Adaptation. Isolation itself is not too hard to avoid,
and all I need to do is force myself to go out and explore the vast unknown and
discover. Unfortunately for me, This vast unknown can sometimes be intimidating
with the sheer amount of people, cultural differences and, well, unknowns. As
the days pass, I feel myself falling into a comfortable routine. Getting used to
working remotely is not as hard as I thought it would be, and I actually find
that it is much easier for me to control my environment. After work, I get to go
out for a jog, walk around the city, or sit at Starbucks, where other solitary
foreigners seem to find solace, and reading a book or surfing internet on my
tablet.

Adapting, however, is a whole different story. Different, not in that it is
difficult, but rather, in that things work differently here. When cooking, I
have to make do with a tiny little kitchen that consists of one stove heater, a
sink and a rack for drying dishes. Forget about preparation space; that is a
luxury I cannot afford. Instead, I have a tiny little bar that I place across my
sink, allowing me to set down a cutting board on top of the sink. With that in
place, my kitchen transforms into a makeshift countertop and a heater. Better
than cutting things up in my bedroom (the only other room) and running back and
forth while things are catching fire on the stove. To my surprise though, this
minimalism of space is not so bad, and it forces me to really consider what
holds an important place in my day-to-day life, and what I can do without. My
personality has always been a bit minimalistic, but Japan is allowing me to come
to this realization and possibly act on it to shape my future purchases and
decisions.

One of the first things I do after feeling comfortable with my surroundings is
map out a jogging route. Prior to moving, I had been going to the gym every
single day, and this is a habit I want to preserve. My route takes me from my
apartment, just northeast of downtown Kobe, all the way south to a park built
under the many overpasses that make up the super efficient transit system that
Japan is well known for. The park has a track (my reason for going,) along with
a skateboarding ring, a basketball court, and a wide open area where clubs and
friends go to play sports, have picnics and generally enjoy a good time.

![Jogging Route][i1]

With a jogging route in mind, I am now only missing one thing: Jogging
shoes. Thus my first adventure begins; *the quest for a pair of shoes*. Very
fascinating. Normally, this would be a simple task, but when taking into account
the fact that I do not know any of the big brand stores, nor the location of
shoe stores, I have to resort to a quick Google search, which turns out to not
be too fruitful. I decided instead to head to *Sannomiya* and walk along one of
the multiple *Shotengai*, outdoors roofed alleys inbetween buildings that are
host to a wide variety of stores, restaurants and shops. I walk past a lot of
shoe stores, but none of them seem to be carrying sports gear. I also walk past
a few sports gear stores that do not seem to be carrying shoes. In the end, I
settle for a store called *ABC-mart*, which I had been to previously, and find
the only decent pair of shoes, which happens to be on a 50% sale. Great! Then
comes the biggest obstacle, asking the clerk for that pair of shoes in my
size. A quick online conversion told me I should be asking for 28cm, so I
do. The guy gets the shoes and there is an awkward silence as I try them on,
walk with them, and then freeze, nervousness causing me to apparently forget how
to say "These are good, I'll take them." After a moment of this, I blurt out the
most colloquial Japanese ever, and the guy just smiles and goes "Oh, great! This
way then," as he takes me to the cashier. Mission Accomplished. This also made
me realize that I'm still much more shy with my Japanese than I'd like to admit.

Come the weekend, I head out with my girlfriend to enjoy one of Kobe's more
popular Christmas time attractions: *The Kobe Luminaries*. At around 9pm, while
it's dark out, thousands of people, both from Kobe and visitors, gather at
*Motomachi*, approximately one kilometer away from where the Luminaries are, to
form a line that takes them to the gorgeous sight. It is customary among a lot
of the residents to visit every year and make a donation to the organization in
order to ensure that they will be able to continue this tradition. As we near
the luminaries, trees are decorated with gold lights and choir music is playing
from mounted speakers. The sight is completely out of this world, and the
atmosphere is one of serenity. Kids and grown up alike admire the scale of the
breathtaking decorations and soothing music that compliments it. After a bit of
walking, we approach the entrance hall of the central area. A picture is
probably the best, although vastly insufficient way to illustrate the
luminaries' majesty.

![Kobe Luminaries][i2]

The Luminaries are on display from December 5th to December 16th, and I have to
honestly say that visiting them another time or two would not be too many.

By now I am only starting to get used to my life here, and I am hoping to have
many more experiences to share as my adventures continue.

----

Despite not having a camera, I have taken some [pictures of my apartment][apt]
for those who are curious about what it looks like. Please forgive the bad
webcam quality!

[i1]: /img/hij/jogging-route.png "Jogging Route"
[i2]: /img/hij/luminaries.png "Kobe Luminaries"
[apt]: http://imgur.com/a/vmADz "Apartment Pictures"