Title:   Hipster in Japan #3: Winter is Coming
License: CC BY-SA 3.0
Tags:    Japan

Foggy white mist disperses in the air as I exhale slowly, periodically looking
in every direction from my sitting point at the lively and crowded Sannomiya
station train station. Like me, many people are waiting for their friends,
lovers, or acquaintances at what has to be the most famous meeting point in all
of Kobe; A small park which has no name, but consists of a few trees and a
statue depicting 3 human torsos. Kobe is full of those strange monuments which
make one wonder who could've possibly thought them up. At this time of the year,
the temperature is getting ever closer to 0 during the night, signifying the
approach of winter, which, while nowhere near Hokkaido or Canadian winters, is
still uncomfortably cold.

The multiple disjoint conversations mangle into one big pot-pourri of noise as
people hurry to catch their train, share lighthearted conversation with their
friends, drunkenly make their ways home and generally enjoy a cold but pleasant
Friday night. I am sitting in this park, waiting for my girlfriend to come back
from a live concert by Japanese artist *レキシ(Rekishi)*. A very popular singer,
performer and entertainer. In Japanese, *Rekishi* means history, and rightly so,
his songs are about Japanese history and classical Japanese culture.

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/auD13pHRiRg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Unfortunately for me, I couldn't make it to his concert, although I would've
really enjoyed it. Nonetheless, I am eager to hear all about tonight's
performance. He is very well-known for his ability to entertain a huge crowd and
making the concert experience very dynamic. After meeting up with my girlfriend,
we head for supper, initially hoping to find a udon restaurant. As luck would
have it, most udon joints are closed off already past 23:00. We eventually
settle for a small ramenya along the train tracks. It is quite hard to describe
the satisfaction of a large bowl of hot ramen and delicious broth after being
out in the cold for a while.

Winter in Kansai is usually not too rough, and sometimes, with a bit of chance,
one might see a centimeter or two of snow that typically melts away within the
hour. Being in mid-December, Christmas shopping and New Year shopping is in full
strength, with stationary shops being crowded with people shopping for
*Nengajou*, A small New Year wishes card that it is customary for Japanese
people to send to their family members as a New Year present. Most of the time,
those cards are made on measure and include pictures of the significant person,
evoking a cheerful memory or a memorable event in the past year.

Conforming to Japanese culture, and also because I want something to share with
my family, which I realize I am thinking about quite a bit, being 11,000
kilometers apart, I try to plan a date and time to go shopping for Nengajou
cards with my girlfriend, who also needs to buy them. On the way, we stop to a
nice and cozy cafe near Motomachi. The cafe itself is located on the 4th floor
of a building with no elevator, and upon entering, I am taken aback by the very
casual and relaxed ambiance. Jazzy music is playing, and people are sitting
leisurely at small hand-crafted wooden tables and chairs, studying or enjoying a
chat. The walls are lined up with posters, shelves containing miscellaneous
antiques, books and tea accessories. The place has a very warm and antique film,
and the ambiance is completed with a projector playing an old black and white
film.

We share a set of Royal Milk Tea, which is apparently a very mild black tea with
milk. As we do so, we discuss our upcoming trip to Hiroshima, which is planned
sometime during the winter holidays.

![rmt]

![rmt2]

Asides from that, I had my first encounter while wandering the Sannomiya
streets. I was making my way home with two large bags of groceries, returning
from a quest to refill my fridge, when I looked ahead and saw a rather tall
American looking man on a direct collision track with me. Trying to avoid him, I
stepped off the sidewalk and into the street, and he seemed to mirror my
actions. Awkwardly, I looked up to confront him, and he looked at me with the
expression of someone that is lost. After excusing himself, he asked me where we
were and whether I could help him find his hotel. Luckily for him, I have been
living in Kobe for an entire 2 weeks, so I managed to find our location on his
map, and give some approximate directions. A significantly different and
possibly shocking reality in Japan is that most streets do not have a
name. Instead, regions are named *cho*s and each *cho* is further divided into
*chome*, numbered from one up to *n*. Within *chome*s, each block is numbered in
a similar fashion, and finally each house or building is numbered in the same
way. The way addresses work, one would say "I live in Blah-cho, 3 chome, 2-16",
often shortened to "Blah-cho 3-2-16". I was actually glad for the impromptu
social interaction, and I am secretly hoping that similar encounters happen in
the future.

All in all, this week has been filled with pleasant experiences and
encounters. I am, hoewever, coming to realize that most of the content in these
posts is about the weekend, and my week days are mostly routine that I feel is
too boring to warrant being mentioned in a blog post. In the coming articles, I
am contemplating a new format, where I will instead focus on one or two events
in more depth, rather than the current format that resembles a travel
log. Please let me know your thoughts or opinions via e-mail. If there are any
topics that are of interest to you, it would be a pleasure to write about those
in later posts.

[rmt]: /img/hij/rmt.jpg "Royal Milk Tea"
[rmt2]: /img/hij/rmt2.jpg "Strange Man"