Title:   Hipster in Japan #7: Discovering Port Island
Detail:  In which I visit IKEA for the first time and appreciate interior design.
Date:    2014-01-13
License: CC BY-SA 3.0
Tags:    Japan

Returning to work has been a painful grind after a long holiday. Luckily, the
pace is picking up again, and my life is returning to its routine slowly but
certainly. As of late, I find myself unable to be productive at home anymore, so
I am going to Starbucks on an almost daily basis to reach my desired level of
productivity. I would like to believe that the difficulty being productive at
home is tied to the fact that I live in a studio apartment where my workplace is
literally sitting on my bed with a small bedside table as a desk.

Our apartment hunt has been successful so far, and we have found a very nice
apartment in the area around Suma, just a bit west of downtown Kobe. That
apartment is a 1LDK, which stands for one bedroom and a "living, dining,
kitchen" area. This means I will be able to have a clean separation between work
and rest, and it should make it easier to work at home.

After visiting the apartment and deciding that it was the one for us, we
encountered another obstacle, which is the fact that I still do not have my
visa. Times are getting stressful since I am reluctant to let go of that
apartment, but I have been lucky enough to manage to explain the situation to
the rental agency, and they have been understanding enough to explain my
situation to the landlord, and give us a strict deadline of January 25th for the
paperwork if we want to move in by February 1st. Here's to hoping this all goes
well.

In the optic of making the move as fun and enjoyable as possible, my girlfriend
and I have been reading through interior design magazines and starting to
imagine what we want the new place to look like. Our first stop was, of course,
IKEA. Luckily, the IKEA in Kobe is fairly easy to get to, and all we needed to
do was take the Portliner to Port Island south of Sannomiya. Port Island is
actually a man-made artifical island constructed in Osaka bay, between Kobe
airport and the shore. It is fairly small and only has the portliner loop going
around it and a few buses.

This being my first time ever visiting IKEA, I was surprised at how huge it was
and how much cool yet incredibly cheap furniture they have. The only problem I
faced was that the wood color we wanted to get was not available at IKEA, so
that put a bit of a wrench in our initial plans. That being said, I was really
happy to find that I can possibly get a dining table and a work desk for a
combined price lower than a similar sized table at a branded furniture shop, and
all of that for a similar look, albeit different quality of material.

The IKEA adventure lasted around an hour and a half, and ended on a very
positive note of eating 100 yen hotdogs. I hadn't realized how much I missed
American fastfood until then. After leaving IKEA, we decided to attempt to walk
back to Sannomiya, which is an approximately 4km walk. The way there was a bit
confusing due to misleading signs, and we accidentally ended up at an impasse in
the middle of two directions of a highway. Debating between attempting a risky
crossing or doubling back and finding the safer way, we ended up noticing the
overpass we were meant to take, and safely doubled back to that overpass,
discovering a nice little park called *Nakakouen* along the way.

We crossed the Kobe bridge to Sannomiya and along the way nearly got hit by
crazy people speeding on their bicycles more than once. After a perilous treck
of roughly an hour, we finally reached the memorial park that I previously
mentioned going to for jogging, and were at last back into known territory.

![bridge]

We ended the day on a positive note by grabbing a quick coffee at Starbucks
before parting ways.

Monday in Japan is a holiday called the *Coming of Age day*. It is a time where
teenagers that recently turned 20 get to wear traditional wear such as Kimono
and celebrate finally becoming an adult. A lot of parties are thrown and I
suspect beer and alcohol abound as well, although I am past that age. Walking
around the streets of Sannomiya, it is not infrequent to see large groups of
people wearing kimono and taking pictures of their friends while they celebrate.

The net result for me is mostly unusually crowded cafes and much more people to
zigzag through, as well as a long weekend.

Unfortunately, the routine I am getting back into means less interesting
adventures to talk about. As life is starting to be hectic with planning the
move to a new apartment, I might find myself having to skip next week unless
something extraordinary happens. As usual, thank you for reading until here, and
thank you for keeping up with my sometimes mindless ramblings!

[bridge]: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/--lOnHZFqPs8/UtNsitiuIYI/AAAAAAAABDw/Vz0nPrtu8aY/w864-h648-no/1546397_658656614194619_747260101_n.jpg "Kobe Ohashi"
