Title:   Hipster in Japan #1: New beginnings
License: CC BY-SA 3.0
Tags:    Japan

As I sit on the plane, contemplating the nearly 24 hours of travel ahead of me,
I think back to all the effort it has taken to get here. The numbing hum of the
turbines is blanking my senses as I recall the last two months of intense stress
and preparation work. October through November was but a blurred blend of hectic
running around to get all the paperwork and preparations done. Gathering
documents for my certificate of eligibility, hunting down the Japanese
immigration law websites to ensure that everything was right, drafting up lists
of things that need to be done before D-Day, finding a new tenant and notifying
the multiple Canadian government agencies of my impending adventure do not even
begin to cover all of the stressful tasks I had to juggle at once.

After an infinity of feeling like I would never make it in time for departure,
here I am, on a plane from YUL to JFK, bracing for the long and painful series
of flights ahead of me. I am carrying nothing more than two suitcases and a
company issued laptop backpack. The suitcases contain souvenirs for my extended
family in Japan, and the bare minimum for living: Clothes and Laptop
accessories.  I am not aware yet that this departure marks a huge turn in my
life. I know it, of course, but my brain does not seem to grasp the concept. It
all feels so unreal and dream-like.

The plane ride itself is bland and almost too uneventful to talk about. Besides
children crying, the whole trip goes without a hitch. As with all long distance
flights, passing time becomes an issue after the first three hours. Luckily,
Japanese culture never disappoints, and there are many variety shows to be
picked from as far as in-flight entertainment is concerned. I pick a TV show
called *honmadekka!?*, A Japanese variety/comedy show where professionals in a
field meet up in front of TV entertainers and proceed to discuss common myths or
recent discoveries in a variety of different topics. The show itself is quite
entertaining, but by far the most interesting part is the second half of the
program, which covers something akin to a so-called life-hack. In this instance,
the topic is about eating curry udon, a delicious dish of thick noodles in curry
sauce, without staining your clothes when slurping said noodles.

In a typical parody fashion, they dress up the demonstrator in an expensive
looking formal suit that is completely white. The unfortunate man then proceeds
to eat normally, and the audience to laugh as the food splatters onto his
clothes. After a good 15 minutes of explaining how the vibration caused from the
lips on the noodle causes the sauce to go flying, including a noodle-shaking
contraption for demonstration purposes and a high speed camera, the show
concludes by telling the guy that the best way is to cut the noodles before
eating them. Outrage naturally follows as the demonstrator asks what the point
was and why he wasn't told this from the very beginning.

## Arrival

The time is 7:50PM.

Apparently exhausted from too much "sleeping", and with an aching behind, I
finally land at ITM and make my way to the baggage claim. Thankfully, I have
already gotten through immigration and customs at Narita, and so now all that is
left is to retrieve my luggage and make my way to Sannomiya, my final
destination.  My girlfriend is waiting eagerly in the arrival zone and at last
we are reunited.  I would be lying if I pretended no tears were shed.

Unfortunately for me, there is no time to relax just yet. Preparation is only
beginning as we make our way to the hotel to drop the encumbering suitcases off
and grab a late dinner. We end up going to a restaurant called *Yaoya*, it
stands for "greenery store", and accordingly so, they serve mostly vegetarian
friendly dishes, and dishes where the focus is on vegetables. After much
debating, we settle for a potato (and avocado) salad, a plate of hakusai and
pork, a small fish-egg omelette and a cheese fondue.

The fondue is definitely the central piece of this meal, with the melted cheese
being served in a halved, hollow pumpkin and a steamer filled with assorted
vegetables.

At that point, my memory is quite vague from all the fatigue, and I do recall
heading back to the hotel after dinner, taking a hot shower and falling into a
deep dreamless slumber, only to wake up at the crack of dawn on Saturday
morning.

Saturday is a busy day. I mentioned a list of things to do before departure
earlier, so now feels like a good time to mention the list of things to do
post-arrival.  My first goal of the day was to carry those massive suitcases as
little as possible throughout the day, so our itinerary for the day involved
coin lockers, for the modest sum of 600 yen a piece (About $7.) With the
suitcases stowed away safely, We headed out for a bit of nostalgic walk around
beautiful downtown Kobe.

At this time of the year, it is still fairly warm out, and we are nearing the
end of *momiji*, the time of the year where leaves turn bright red, lively
yellow and mesmerizing orange. The city is as lively as ever, with multiple
events, live performances, a background noise of traffic, honking and
construction work, but it feels exactly the same as it felt when I last
went. Throughout all of this, I have a lingering feeling of not really being
here, of not really living here.  My brain seems to be stuck in permanent denial
of this surreal moment.

After having lunch, we head to the real estate agency to retrieve the apartment
keys of what is to become my temporary headquarters until my work visa paperwork
is complete. The apartment is small. Smaller than I expected. The total surface
is somewhere in the range of 25-30 squared meters, including the space taken up
by furniture. That being said, it is a very cozy place and is fully furnished,
with utilities included, along with TV cable, which is a pretty good deal. To my
surprise, I also have a small work-table, which will delay my purchasing of a
real desk.

The next ordeal after seizing up the apartment is to make our way back to
Sannomiya and get me connected to the internet. This goes mostly without any
problem, despite me not having any identity in Japan yet. Thankfully, my
girlfriend was kind enough to sign the contract in my place, and let me use the
service. I opted to sign up for WiMAX, which is a mobile technology similar to
LTE, and can reach upwards of 40 Mbps in both directions. It is ridiculously
cheap when compared to Canadian internet, but comes with a few drawbacks that I
am just now discovering:

- Service Area is limited (Not a problem since I am always downtown, where coverage is guaranteed)
- Load-balancing and IP relays cause a lot of latency on initial connections (average 100ms for local links)
- Load-balancing kills Cisco AnyConnect VPN. This is a problem because I am dependent on the VPN for my work.

Sunday will consist in attempting to find a workaround to be able to have VPN
access back to our Montreal office. A day that promises to be fantastic, and a
great opportunity to exercise some problem solving abilities right before
getting back to work. Other than that, I have yet to get groceries and supplies
required for daily life, which is the second part of Sunday's mission.

## Next Time on Hipster in Japan

This series will take a weekly/biweekly schedule, and will be covering anything
from very mundane activities to adventures in the wilderness. Expect entries to
pick up in size after this one. Also expect pictures starting in mid-January.  I
will be unable to provide pictures until I obtain a cellphone in Japan, which
will happen following my work visa.

Thanks for reading! Feel free to drop me comments via e-mail until I actually
get around to implementing a comment system for the site.