Title:   Hipster in Japan #5: Hiroshima
License: CC BY-SA 3.0
Tags:    Japan

First light is dawning upon a cold December morning, windows frosted up from the
below-zero overnight temperature. I get up with intent, checking on my clothes,
packing the last of my luggage, reviewing my mental checklist and ensuring that
I'm not missing anything. Despite the rainy weather forecast, there is no doubt
in my mind that the next two days are going to be filled with great memories and
experiences. This year was my first Christmas working instead of
celebrating. This conscious decision, I made in hopes of further conforming
myself to Japanese culture and experience it to its fullest extent. That, and to
ensure my holidays matched with my significant other's, of course. There might
not be a Christmas holiday in the typical expecation of my Canadian people in
Japan, but it is still a season of celebration, and we have opted to visit
Hiroshima and the Miyajima temple as an alternative. With my suitcase loosely
packed, I check my backpack to ensure I have the guide book and our Shinkansen
tickets from Nishi-Akashi to Hiroshima. After confirming I'm not missing
anything, I head to the train station and grab a Onigiri for a quick breakfast
at the nearest Seven Eleven.

Nishi-Akashi is a 30 minute train ride on the *Shin-kaisoku* JR line. There are
three types of trains in Japan, excluding the Shinkansen. First, the *futsuu*
(normal) trains, which we call "local" trains, stop at every station on a given
line. Then, slightly faster, are the *Kaisoku* (express) trains, which skip a
bunch of stations in between express stops. Lastly, there is the *Shin-kaisoku*
("new" express) which we call "special express" trains, that stop at only the
most popular train stations on a line. It is possible to conveniently transfer
between trains at the common stations in order to travel as efficiently as
possible. Luckily for me, *Sannomiya* and *Nishi-akashi* are both on the special
express line, so I have a very relaxing trip in the morning.

Upon arrival at Nishi-akashi, I meet up with my significant other and we make a
quick stop at a cafe to enjoy a cup of coffee and have a sandwich. I can feel
the excitement of boarding the Shinkansen for the first time of my life slowly
building up as we finish our meal and head back to the station. The wonderful
part about the Japanese train system is that, had we not had this cafe
interlude, the shinkansen is directly connected to the local train lines and all
that is needed is to pass your ticket through a second time to access the
boarding zone.

While inside the station, we hear the occasional thunderous rumble of one such
train passing by on the tracks above us. This lasts no more than two or three
seconds, for a train that measures 200-300m in length.

This early in the morning, the platforms are mostly empty, with a few travelers
patiently waiting for the train to arrive. As the bells ring to signal its
arrival, and the PA voice comes on to announce incoming train and boarding for
Hiroshima, I can feel my heart beating faster in anticipation. At last, the
train arrives with its elongated driver cabin in what I claim resembles a
penguin, which causes my girlfriend to give me a (sympathy?) laugh.

All in all, the distance from Nishi-akashi to Hiroshima is 247km, and it takes
an hour and thirty minutes. Upon arrival, we store our suitcase into a coin
locker (Japan is very convenient in that regard, and the biggest coin lockers
cost only 600 yen for a whole day of storing your luggage safely and not having
to carry it wherever you go.) and head directly to Miyajima.

There is only one line that goes to Miyajima Gate, the station where the
Miyajima ferry awaits. A local line that takes us through the incredible country
side of Hiroshima. Rice fields, farms and old fashioned houses make up the
wonderful train scenery that is oft seen in movies. At Miyajima gate, we walk
through an underground tunnel to the ferry which is to take us across and to the
island of Miyajima. As we make our approach, we can see the Miyajima Torii
standing tall and proud in the distance, having braved the storms, waves, and
other feats of strength of mother nature for thousands of years.

![miyajima-approach]

The island is home to about 2000 Japanese people and welcomes hundreds of
thousands of tourists year around. The locals work hard to preserve the wildlife
and forests of Miyajima, and wild deers abound on the island, free roaming
wherever they please. They are very friendly and will come to meet people, get
food and let humans touch and pet them.

![miyajima-deers]

We arrive right around lunch time, and head to have the very famous staple food
of Hiroshima, Anagomeshi. A type of eel known as *Conger eel*, which is often
mistaken by foreigners as *unagi*, a more expensive type of eel. We have it in
the form of a bowl of rice topped by anago, called *anagodon*.

![anagodon]

Most of our time at the island is spent at *Itukushima Jinja*, the biggest
temple on the island, and one of the three wonders of Japan. It is truly a
surreal sight. We are lucky enough that the tide is low at the time of our
visit, and so we are able to walk down onto the beach that surrounds the
pillar-mounted temple. Words are simply not enough to describe the greatness of
the temple.

Following Japanese custom, we purify ourselves before entering the temple by
pouring blessed water onto our hands. Inside the temple, we make a donation and
a prayer at the altar, and eventually head out to explore the island. After some
street roaming, mountain climbing and haphazardous exploration, we take the
ferry home and drop off our luggage at the hotel. We head out to have supper,
which is Hiroshima style Okonomiyaki, a wonderful dish of pancake mix, cabbage,
noodle, pork and toppings.

![hiroshimayaki]

The second day of the trip is a more emotionally loaded day, as we visit the
historically heavy site of the nuclear explosion that essentially put an end to
World War II. We first visited Genbaku-dome, one of the only buildings that
stood after the devastating blast. The atmosphere there is heavy and solemn,
asides from a few foreigners that do not seem to grasp the concept of what
exactly happened there. I will not go into too much detail because it makes me
upset and even angry to think about these events. In Japanese, there is a word
for people that cannot grasp the mood around them, and are oblivious. That word,
often abbreviated as the letters KY (pronounced in romaji as keiwai) I feel
describes perfectly some of the toursits we saw that day at the areas
surrounding the dome, the Peace Memorial Park, and the Museum. In English, KY
would roughly mean "Unable to read the mood."

My thoughts during the visit of the dome and of the museum were not about how
"happy" I was to visit the site of such tragedy, or how great my pictures were
going to be. They were about how mankind is able of such mindless destruction
and atrocities. I have not taken many pictures of the area, nor of the
expositions in the museum, because I felt like that would compare to taking
pictures of one's self smiling cheerfully in front of the concentration camps.

One picture I took though, for the sheer impact of the before-after comparision,
is two small-scale replicas of the roughly 30km area before and after the
blast. Unfortunately, at the time of writing this article I do not have those
pictures available, but they will be on the [Google+ album][pics] as soon as I
have them.

30km is nowhere near the full area that was affected by the blast, but the
damage done is just too much to imagine.

After the visit, we both needed to take a short break and recover our mood. I
feel exhausted even as I write this from just recalling the sights and
descriptions of the aftermath of the bombing.

In order to lift our mood, we headed to a small ramen bar, and had a nice warm
bowl of ramen before heading to the bus station for a four hour long bus trip
home.

[miyajima-approach]: https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-9RCyBOJkx2Q/Ur_c3gNTISI/AAAAAAAAA9w/TgRZ00efWTQ/w960-h720-no/994412_10151758635646707_1978958488_n.jpg "Itsukushima Torii"
[miyajima-deers]: https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-3iyw8y98SVQ/Ur_c3mmC9dI/AAAAAAAAA-E/XmXIgurpb0o/w960-h720-no/1513257_10151758634841707_1840870081_n.jpg "Wild Deers on Miyajima"
[anagodon]: https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-usvEWXTVbNY/Ur_c3jklw-I/AAAAAAAAA94/a4tuM9qrZ8Y/w960-h720-no/1506532_10151758634786707_170984346_n.jpg "A bowl of conger eel on rice"
[hiroshimayaki]: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-tRUMKpOVLuQ/Ur_c3vFE7UI/AAAAAAAAA-A/cY4Ul4ZW7ew/w960-h720-no/1525165_10151758635101707_1956327571_n.jpg "Hiroshima-style Okonomiyaki"
[pics]: https://plus.google.com/photos/103265693262609898455/albums/5960375363229116097 "Hipster in Japan Photo Album"